Understanding shared memory programming with Pthreads and OpenMP (#7386)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/understanding-shared-memory-programming-with-pthreads-and-openmp/index.md

2. `Build a web server` - A web server must be capable of downloading huge files in a short period. It saves time to start a new thread for each new request. Multiple threads may execute on many processors simultaneously.

3. `Building a graphical user interface` - Graphical user interface apps expect a request to do a window portion. If it is pre-occupied, the window will be blank. In this scenario, having one thread handle the windowing system messages and requests is prudent (as well as user input). If an operation takes more than 0.2 seconds, it is sent to another thread.

### OpenMP and its use
OpenMP is an SMP programming package. OpenMP threads share memory and data. This includes C++ and FORTRAN. The OpenMP header file is omp.h.

An OpenMP application's parts might be sequential or parallel. For example, an OpenMP program often begins with a sequential selection that sets up the environment and initializes the variables.

When an OpenMP application is launched, it will utilize one thread (in the sequential portions) and numerous threads (in the parallel sections).

> The primary thread is the one that goes all the way from the beginning to the conclusion. On the other hand, the secondary threads will fork due to the parallel parts of the program. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary thread is the thread that travels from the start to the end. On the other hand, the secondary threads will fork due to the parallel parts of the program.
```

A particular directive marks a block of code executed in a parallel program. This directive will induce secondary threads to arise when the execution reaches a parallel portion (indicated by omp pragma). 

Each thread runs a similar piece of code. It joins the master when finished. When all threads have been terminated, the master resumes programming in the parallel part.

The runtime library's `omp get thread num()` method finds each thread's ID. The main thread ID is 0.

> Use OpenMP directives to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use OpenMP directives to:
```

- Define a parallel zone.
- Define whether parallel section variables are private or shared.
- Define synchronization of threads.
- Define loop parallelization.
- Indicate the work's threading.
   
#### Creating a thread using OpenMP

> Here is what you should do to create a thread using OpenMP:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the code to create a thread using OpenMP:
```

```c++
#pragma omp parallel 
{

}
```

After this line, the main thread forks multiple instances to do the #pragma construct's task. The main thread's ID will be 0.

Let us look at the example code. First, save it as `second.c`.

```c++
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
   #pragma omp parallel
   {
   printf("Hi and welcome to Section Engineering education.\n");
   }

  return 0;
}
```

To compile the code above, run the command `gcc -fopenmp second.c -o second` and view the output using `./second.`

The output is:

```bash
Hi and welcome to Section Engineering education.

Hi and welcome to Section Engineering education.
```

#### Parallelizing loops

> OpenMP takes care of parallelizing loops with only a few parameters and a loop definition. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenMP takes care of parallelizing loops with only a few parameters and a loop definition. The directive, work-sharing concept, must be in a parallel section.
```

> The directive, work-sharing concept, must be in a parallel section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The `#pragma omp` command distributes the loop across threads. It must be used with another block of code:

Let us look at an example program that adds all elements in an array. Save the code as `third.c`.

> ```C++

Reviewer: Check on your code indentation
